---
description: How to make Scatterplot Matrix plots in MATLAB<sup>&reg;</sup> with Plotly.
name: Scatterplot Matrix
display_as: statistical
order: 6
permalink: matlab/splom/
thumbnail: thumbnail/splom_image.jpg
layout: base
language: matlab
page_type: u-guide
---

## Create Scatter Plot Matrix with Two Matrix Inputs

Create `X` as a matrix of random data and `Y` as a matrix of integer values. Then, create a scatter plot matrix of the columns of `X` against the columns of `Y`.

<pre class="mcode">
X = randn(50,3);
Y = reshape(1:150,50,3);  
plotmatrix(X,Y)

fig2plotly()
</pre>

plot_0_0_create_scatter_plot_matrix_with_two_matrix_inputs

The subplot in the ith row, jth column of the figure is a scatter plot of the ith column of `Y` against the jth column of `X`. 



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

## Create Scatter Plot Matrix with One Matrix Input

Create a scatter plot matrix of random data. The subplot in the ith row, jth column of the matrix is a scatter plot of the ith column of `X` against the jth column of `X`. Along the diagonal are histogram plots of each column of `X`. 

<pre class="mcode">
X = randn(50,3);  
plotmatrix(X)

fig2plotly()
</pre>

plot_1_0_create_scatter_plot_matrix_with_one_matrix_input



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

## Specify Marker Type and Color

Create a scatter plot matrix of random data. Specify the marker type and the color for the scatter plots.

<pre class="mcode">
X = randn(50,3);  
plotmatrix(X,'*r')

fig2plotly()
</pre>

plot_2_0_specify_marker_type_and_color

The `LineSpec` option sets properties for the scatter plots. To set properties for the histogram plots, return the histogram objects.



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

## Modify Scatter Plot Matrix After Creation

Create a scatter plot matrix of random data. 

<pre class="mcode">
rng default
X = randn(50,3);
[S,AX,BigAx,H,HAx] = plotmatrix(X);

fig2plotly()
</pre>

plot_3_0_modify_scatter_plot_matrix_after_creation

To set properties for the scatter plots, use `S`. To set properties for the histograms, use `H`. To set axes properties, use `AX`, `BigAx`, and `HAx`. Use dot notation to set properties.

Set the color and marker type for the scatter plot in the lower left corner of the figure. Set the color for the histogram plot in the lower right corner. Use the `title` command to title the figure.

<pre class="mcode">
S(3).Color = 'g';
S(3).Marker = '*';  

H(3).EdgeColor = 'k';
H(3).FaceColor = 'g';  

title(BigAx,'A Comparison of Data Sets')
</pre>

plot_3_0_modify_scatter_plot_matrix_after_creation



<!--------------------- EXAMPLE BREAK ------------------------->

